KB Grid handle empty popup footer (#2445)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-handle-empty-popup-footer.md

---

> title:  Hiding or Removing the Empty Popup Footer when Using the Popup Form Template

Reviewer: I would shorten this. A / The are not required in headings, and you can add more keywords elsewhere.

```suggestion
title:  Remove Empty Popup Footer when Using Popup Form Template
```

description: Learn how to either hide the empty footer in the edit popup of the Grid for Blazor or use it to display custom Form buttons.
type: how-to
page_title: How to handle the empty popup footer when using the Popup Form Template
slug: grid-kb-handle-empty-popup-footer
tags: grid, blazor, edit form, popup form template, footer, custom buttons, empty
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1665785
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> When I am using the [Popup Form Template]({%slug grid-templates-popup-form%}) in the Grid for Blazor, the [default Update and Cancel buttons are removed]({%slug grid-templates-popup-form%}#specifics). I am not using the [`ButtonsTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-popup-buttons%}) and the footer remains empty. This takes unnecessary space and affects the UI's aesthetics. 

Reviewer 2: Use **bold** when mentioning the labels of UI components.
```suggestion
When I am using the [Popup Form Template]({%slug grid-templates-popup-form%}) in the Grid for Blazor, the [default **Update** and **Cancel** buttons are removed]({%slug grid-templates-popup-form%}#specifics). I am not using the [`ButtonsTemplate`]({%slug grid-templates-popup-buttons%}) and the footer remains empty. This takes unnecessary space and affects the UI's aesthetics. 
```

> The requirement is to either hide this empty footer or utilize it by placing the custom form buttons within. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I want to either hide this empty footer or utilize it by placing the custom form buttons within. 
```

This KB article also answers the following questions:

- How to hide the empty footer in the edit popup of the Grid for Blazor?
- How to display custom buttons in the footer of the edit popup?
- How to manage form submission with custom buttons in the Grid for Blazor?

## Solution

> There are two approaches to address this requirement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To hide the empty footer or utilize it by placing the custom form buttons, choose either of the following approaches:
```

        <GridCommandColumn>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Edit" Icon="@SvgIcon.Pencil">Edit</GridCommandButton>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Delete" Icon="@SvgIcon.Trash">Delete</GridCommandButton>
        </GridCommandColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    private List<string> PositionsData { get; set; } = new List<string>()
    {
        "Manager", "Developer", "QA"
    };

    private TelerikGrid<Person> GridRef { get; set; }
    private List<Person> GridData { get; set; }
    private Person EditItem { get; set; }
    private List<Person> _people;

    public class Person
    {
        public int EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
        public string Position { get; set; }
    }

    public List<Person> People
    {
        get
        {
            if (_people == null)
            {
                _people = GeneratePeople(30);
            }

            return _people;
        }
    }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        LoadData();
    }

    private void LoadData()
    {
        GridData = GetPeople();

>     }

Reviewer: This looks over-engineered. Why not generate the data in OnInitialized and forget about it?
